All right,
let's talk a little bit about interfaces.
This is the other option here for
giving your type a name.
And we can do something very similar here,
in the sense that we can make our
printAmount function, and if we look
at amt, we've got the currency and
the value in there, so
we are giving a type a name.
Note that there's no equals sign here,
this would be invalid syntax
if we put an equals sign here.
We would say this is
an interface declaration.
Interfaces cannot model every possible
type that TypeScript can create.
So for example, I can't do this, I cannot.
I can't create a union
type in an interface,
at least not on this outer object.
I could do like this, but we've got to
make sure that this thing is object-ish.
And part of that has to do with one of
the key reasons that you would reach for
an interface.
So, that is for inheritance.
So the first thing we're going to talk
about is the extends keyword, right?
So this is one of the two heritage
clauses that TypeScript allows.
Extends is one, implements is the other,
but they both describe inheritance.
So first I wanna remind you of the regular
JavaScript extends behavior, right?
We've got a base class AnimalThatEats,
it takes in a food.
Let's say that's a string
representing the type of food,
just make those type errors go away.
And then we can create a Cat
that extends AnimalThatEats,
and we get a new method
on there where it meows.
So if we create the Cat, it can eat.
I mean, we haven't invoked.
I guess, cats eat cat food.
And then we can make it meow.
So this is just JavaScript
classes at work here.
Here's how it works with interfaces.
All right, we're gonna define
an interface called Animal.
Now note, interfaces don't have a body,
I couldn't implement a method here,
they're just types.
They kind of look like
classes a little bit, but
it's like a class without
the implementation.
You can't instantiate an interface.
You're just kind of describing fields and
methods, things of that nature.
So we can create one that's Animal,
we can create another interface
that sort of extends Animal.
So mammals, they are alive,
they have fur or hair color.
I don't know if all mammals have fur or
hair, but.
And then a Hamster is a mammal,
and a hamster squeaks, and so
we can extend it one more time,
and look at what we can do.
We've got careForHamster, and I've got
all of that functionality on here.
So that's extends.
And the mental model here is, in classes,
you can have a class that extends a class.
And you can have an interface
that extends an interface.
So extends is for like things.
We're gonna talk about
implements in a second,
which allows a class to
implement an interface.
But extends is the one you reach for
when it's like things, class for
class, interface for interface.
All right, let's talk about implements.
So, here we've got
an interface AnimalLike,
we'll make this string again, and
we've got Dog implements AnimalLike,
and we've got the Dog barks,
what's the error?
Dog incorrectly implements interface,
AnimalLike.
Property eat is missing in type Dog but
required in type AnimalLike.
So what we're seeing here is
that an interface represents
a contract that Dog must adhere to.
If you implement AnimalLike,
you gotta flesh out eat,
we gotta create a method in there.
So we could explicitly create it or
I'm sure VS Code, yep,
there you go,
implement interface and all like.
So it'll create this for us, right?
Anything that you're missing,
VS Code will populate that for you.
And it's gonna start with
"Method- not- implemented",
but I think we had a function,
consumeFood will do that.
And so now Dog is happy.
Implements is about using
an interface to define
a contract that a class must adhere to.
Now I'm gonna loop back to when I said,
interfaces can't be used
to describe any old type that
you can create in TypeScript.
Well, what would it mean to
have something like this?
Something like that,
it starts to get really confusing
as to what this sorta even mean.
Dog implements null, can we do that?
What does it mean for
an instance of this class to be a null?
It doesn't make any sense.
There are certain minimum
requirements we have for like,
what does an instance
of a class look like?
And that requires that it
is an object type, right?
So there are some things
that an interface can't do.
Let's put all of this together.
So we've got a living organism.
It's just another version
of our AnimalLike.
We've got CanBark, And here we go.
But we can have Dog2, it's another class,
just so I don't collide with my first one.
But we can extend LivingOrganism,
which is a base class.
Remember extends,
classes extend other classes.
And then we can have it implement
two interfaces if we like.
And we've got bark, we've got eat,
make that a string again.
So if we break this down, so
we extend LivingOrganism,
so we get isAlive, we get that for free.
isAlive is not in this class specifically,
it's in the base class,
we get it cuz it's in the base class.
AnimalLike is an interface that
requires an isAlive method.
There it is, no, sorry, it's eat.
Yeah, it's eat, so we get isAlive.
Did we have another interface
up here that was isAlive?
Animal, we could add that one too, Right?
Yeah, we make Animal happy
because this base class, I mean,
we already have the method
that Animal wants, right?
AnimalLike requires us to have,
what was it?
Eat, and we have our eat.
CanBark requires the bark,
and so it's there.
So these all represent kind of
contracts that this class and
its base classes must live up to, right?
Whatever the reified class is,
when you flatten out the class,
what methods are on this,
what properties are on this,
regardless of where they came from,
a base class or this class.
And then this is where we're actually
building on top of a fully-defined class
that has methods and has class fields and
has those kinds of things.
But you can use them all together,
these are both kinds of heritage clauses,
just meaning it has to do with inheritance
that are supported in TypeScript.
And Michael asks, could we use extends
instead of implements for the Dog2?
Michael, what would you have
me extend here or implement?
This here is a list of interfaces,
and this is a class.
So if we put an interface up here, Well,
first you can't because TypeScript
doesn't allow true multiple
inheritance, which would be like
I have multiple base things.
So even if it allowed that,
AnimalLike is not a class, and so
we couldn't put it up there.
So at most you can have one extends,
but you can have as many
implements as you like, and
they must all be interfaces.
So you couldn't do,
I don't think you could do this.
I can think of a way it
could possibly work.
Yeah, it is working here.
What's happening here is,
classes are two things.
There's a class which has a value,
the function that you call new on, and
then there's an interface, which is what
is the shape of an instance of the class?
It's actually both things
sandwiched on top of each other.
So when you're using living
organism in this position here,
you're using the interface
side of the class.
If you want to learn more about this,
take the intermediate TypeScript course,
where we will discuss declaration merging.
And that's where we can learn how
are these things sandwiched on top of
each other.
Just know that what we're seeing here,
though,
is we incorrectly implement
the interface here.
isAlive is missing, why is it missing?
All that LivingOrganism is giving us,
it's basically giving us just the isAlive
function that returns a Boolean.
It doesn't give us the implementation
function, it kinda just gives us this.
So, this isAlive thing, it's not giving
us functionality from LivingOrganism.
It's imposing a new requirement on us
to implement our own isAlive function,
which returns a Boolean,
it would be equivalent to this.
That's effectively what's happening here,
it's now being used.
The type of the class is being used as
an interface as opposed to using it
as a base class, which gives us real
object-oriented inheritance with like,
the method is there, if you trace
prototypes back, you would see it.
A nuanced question, I thought it might or
might not work cuz I could think of
good reasons for both, but yeah.
>> So
would you wanna make an interface for
Dog that just combines those three,
and then,
rather than implements a list of three-
>> You could.
>> Is there a point to doing that,
or was it just-
>> Sometimes.
>> Okay.
>> So we would do this.
Something like that.
But, because it's like, right,
interfaces don't implement interfaces.
Interfaces have no implementation.
So we'd use extenss, now we've got
DogLike, and we could do this.
Now, why might we do this?
Well, it's conceivable that
there could be other things
that are Dog-shaped and
we want people to be able to use those
in ways that don't require
it to be specifically a dog.
I'll show you an example, and
we're gonna look at some really
narrowly TypeScript code.
There's our interface for Promise.
I've got my dot then, I've got my catch,
we also have PromiseLike,
which is just dot then.
So sometimes you wanna say,
look, all I need for
Promise chaining is then, I can actually
await something with a dot then.
I don't need the dot catch to be there.
I may not need the dot
finally to be there.
So this is an example of teasing
out the very essence of something,
even though any given real promise
that you're passing around,
be it a native promise that's part of what
the JavaScript language now provides,
or there used to be libraries
you'd bring in for promises.
They could all conform to this, and
it didn't matter if you were using
like some libraries promise or a native
promise or whatever, as long as they're
all promise-like, you can sort of
interchange them for each other, right?
That's when you would wanna tease
out an interface like this,
that would be the benefit, right?
Let's say you're like, look, I've got
a bunch of different libraries that do dog
things, they have different ways
of modeling them maybe, but
they all have to conform to this.
And maybe this is my dog,
the way I think about dog.
And as long as it implements DogLike,
I can have a bunch of functions out there
that just require a dog-like thing.
And they'll work with anybody
who conforms to that interface.
That's one of the powers of
structural typing, right?
It doesn't have to come
from this constructor,
it can be anything that
describes the right shape.
And this is an example of sort of
flattening a bunch of interfaces together.
And you could expose that outside of this
library, nobody needs to worry about this.
They just know it's a DogLike thing.
And these could be a bunch of
very granular little things
that you're sorta stacking up one by one.
But they're just gonna grab DogLike,
does that make sense?
>> Yeah.
>> Mohd, M-O-H-D, you're asking, can we
do class extends class extends class?
That's a good question.
Technically, yes, I think.
Not allowed in the same, yeah, see.
You can create anonymous classes.
You could do that, [LAUGH], but this is
some weird code here that technically
works, cuz this is just an expression
here that gives you a class.
And then this is another
expression that gives you a class,
effectively, but, I wouldn't.
Many things are possible,
let's talk about advisable things [LAUGH].
All right, okay moving on.
Let's talk a little bit
about type aliases, again,
and how they work with classes.
So we'll have a type alias called
CanJump and we'll say we can jump to
a height that is a number, let's say
in inches or meters or whatever it is.
And we've got another Dog class,
Dog3, it's gonna eat food,
that's a string, and jump to height,
it's always gonna return 1.7.
That's great, and if we were to introduce
this, I think everything's still okay.
And this is because we're
introducing a union type that,
well, first off,
we're conforming to this type.
jumpToHeight must return either
a number or a tuple of two numbers.
We're being a little more specific here.
We only return a number from this class,
but it's enough to conform
to this interface.
We're not obligated to
handle all possibilities.
All that matters is the return
type of this function,
is the set of all numbers allowed in the
set represented by this, and yes, it is.
It's a specific set, doesn't include
any of the tuples, but it's in there,
all numbers are in that set.
All right, so
let's replace that type, CanBark.
Sorry, CanJump, We'll add this,
this is a new type alias.
I'm gonna call it CanBark2,
and let's try this.
So, what we've got here,
CanBark2 is a number,
think of it that way, although adding
that first pipe is not harmful.
It's a number or this object,
and we're having a problem here.
A class can only implement
an object type or
intersection of object types
with statically known members.
So number is not an object type,
we can't have a class that extends or
implements number.
This is why I wouldn't advise using
type aliases this way, you can use them.
You can get lucky or be careful,
however you wanna think about it.
CanJump is not causing us any problems.
We could just as easily create
an interface called CanJump with the same
method in it.
It's an object type either way.
TypeScript actually doesn't
care where these come from,
whether they're interfaces or
type aliases.
But when it resolves them,
they must be the kind of thing that
can model an instance of a class.
And having the possibility that
the instance of a class is a number,
that's off, that's weird.
We won't allow that.
So this is why,
if you intend to use it, type this way,
I would advise making it an interface
because it'll appropriately bust you
if you start doing things that are just
incompatible with the implements keyword.
Interfaces will always be compatible
with the implements keyword.
The rules you have for
what you can use interfaces to describe,
inherently, it is like exactly what
can be on an instance of a class.
LJ says, basically don't use type for
what you would use interfaces for.
Yeah, I think that's another way
of saying what I'm saying here,
if you're gonna do this, use an interface.